Despite a 26-year ban, the Theocratic landscape in Malau is changing for the better.
What has contributed to such a change?
Largely, divine education.
Specifically, the schools for single-brothers, Christian couples, have had a major impact
on advancing theocracy.
Starting with ministerial training school and Gilead graduates, the real excitement
came in 2008 when the first class of MTS was held in the vernacular language in Malawi
called Chichewa.
To date, over 400 brothers, 36 Christian couples and 47 travelling overseers and their wives
have shared this specialised training that they received with those even in the most
remote parts of Malawi.
As a result, congregations are being stabilised and built up in the faith.
But why is this such a thrilling development for Malawi?
Well, as we all know, Satan can use a country's environment or culture to stifle Theocratic
progress and Malawi is no exception to this.
For example, typical rural life in Malawi does not involve keeping to a schedule or time.
Sorry for that.
Just imagine, brothers, you don't have a watch or a clock, the only way of telling the
time is to look at the position of the sun in the sky.
You have between four and ten or possibly more children to get ready and prepare for
Theocratic activities.
You don't have a vehicle, there's no public transport, but you've got to work between
one and three hours or two or three hours to get to the kingdom hall.
Now with that picture in mind, how likely is it that meetings will start, run and finish
on time?
The answer is obvious, isn't it?
Another challenge in Malawi is chief mentality.
You see, in Malawi, village life revolves around the authority of one man or woman who is
appointed as chief.
When this is the norm, it's a huge challenge not to allow this structure to creep into
the Christian congregation.
Just to the training mentioned earlier of all the Theocratic schools, though, congregations
are experiencing an increase in shepherds who really shepherd the flock, as promised by
Jehovah at Jerry Mayer, chapter 23 and verse 4.
What are the exciting developments are we seeing in Malawi?
Remote translation officers.
Currently, we have one fully operational article in the north of Malawi, and happily
as we speak now, two new articles are also under construction.
Singing kingdom songs has always been an absolute delight for the brothers in Malawi,
just as it is here.
However, with little money to spend and no electricity in over 80% of the kingdom halls
in Malawi, learning how to sing the new kingdom songs has been very difficult.
For example, oftentimes, the brothers just read the songs out loud, not really knowing
the tune.
Therefore, recently, the organization researched what type of appliance could be designed
and manufactured specifically to address this problem.
The appliance would have to be portable, extremely durable, simple to use, and chargeable
even in remote areas where there's no electricity.
Quite a feat to accomplish.
As always, though, Jehovah's organization has come up with a solution.
The governing body has approved the purchase of a simple purpose-built music player, which
is now in the process of being sent out to all congregations, even the remote parts of
Malawi with this need.
How did congregations respond upon hearing about this new provision?
Just to give you an example of one letter, an excerpt from one letter, this is a translation
of what the brothers wrote, and very typical of what many letters contain.
To be honest, brothers, we've not been doing very well at singing.
Isn't that sweet, honestly, beautiful?
But when we get this music player, we will really, really sing praises to Jehovah.
Please, please, please, please send us one as soon as possible.
Yes, brothers, this appreciation has moved many congregations to send with their letter
even a voluntary donation, which is truly, as Jesus said at Luke 21 verse 4, a gift not
out of their surplus, but out of their want.
As you can see, brothers, these few highlights give evidence of Jehovah's loving watch care
over his people in Malawi.
We give thanks to Jehovah for his education, his building and his building programs and
his generosity.